-: Welcome back.
In this section we are going to implement
AWS Network Load Balancer using Kubernetes service
and AWS EKS Load Balancer Controller.
So so far whenever we have implemented it in section seven,
it is with the AWS cloud provider Load Balancer Controller
which is a legacy one.
So now, AWS has provided
a dedicated load balancer controller
wherein with that you'll be able to
create Application Load Balancer
and Network Load Balancer.
So let's see how to create
this Network Load Balancer
and a little background about all these things in detail
before going into practical implementation.
So what is a Network Load Balancer?
So network traffic is load balanced at layer four
of the OSI model.
And this Network Load Balancer supports
PCP. UDP, and then TLS protocols.
So if you want to understand more
about this Network Load Balancer
or Application Load Balancer
and understand the differences about them,
are the types of services they provide,
are types of features they provide.
So this is the ELB features comparison link
and we can go there and then review them in detail.
So if you see here, in AWS
we have Application Load Balancer,
Network Load Balancer, Gateway Load Balancer
and Classic Load Balancer.
So out of which, the load balancer type is layer seven
for Application Load Balancer.
And now the item which we are discussing here
is Network Load Balancer and that is of type layer four.
And Gateway Load Balancer can do layer three gateway
plus layer four load balancer
and Classic Load Balancer is of type layer four
and then layer seven which is the legacy one.
And in future it might get deprecated too.
So the important thing here is
if you review all these features,
so in the Network Load Balancer, you can see there
is no layer seven related features
because it operates at the OSI model layer four
and there will be some common configurations.
Those are supported in this Network Load Balancer
and also from Kubernetes perspective, right?
So it also supports SSL offloading
which means it also supports the TLS termination
on the Network Load Balancer itself.
From Kubernetes perspective you can see
it also supports the Fargate parts
and also it supports the fully private EKS clusters
and it doesn't support the load balancing
to multiple name spaces.
Here Application Load Balancer supports
that which means ingress supports that.
But Network Load Balancer
which we are going to create
using Kubernetes service resource
is not going to support that.
So now let's go back here
and understand more about these things.
So options for creating Network Load Balancer
using Kubernetes on EKS cluster.
So what are the options?
So we have two options.
So one is AWS cloud provider load balancer controller
and another controller is AWS Load Balancer Controller.
And if you see this
AWS cloud provider load balancer controller
it is a legacy controller which can
create AWS classic LB and network LB
but the latest one, right?
So this AWS Load Balancer Controller can
create latest and greatest,
which can create AWS ELB and NLB.
And this cloud provider load balancer controller is
a very basic Network Load Balancer
and this controller will receive only critical bug fixes
and in long run it will be deprecated and
this controller will not have any new features added to it.
So that said
so this AWS cloud provider related load balancer
controller is going to be of no use for us.
So we need to learn the Network Load Balancer
creation using the AWS latest Load Balancer Controller
so that it will be very helpful for us
In that line I have ensured that
six demos were created using this Load Balancer Controller
and Network Load Balancer with Kubernetes service.
So now if you see here in section seven of this course
you'll find something called 07-02-Classic-LoadBalancer
and 07-03-Network-LoadBalancer.
So these two things were created using
this AWS cloud provider Load Balancer Controller
and this controller you don't need to specifically go ahead
and then install it.
So by default
so whenever the EKS cluster control plan is getting created
so that will be installed automatically
but when coming to this latest AWS Load Balancer Controller.
So you need to specifically go ahead and then install it.
So we have done that when we have implemented
the Application Load Balancer ingress concepts.
So now in our cluster we already have the AWS load
balancer controller and also the external DNS related ports
and all those things.
So that said, these demos we are going to do
after the ingress related demos, whatever we have done
as part of section eight new
and also section nine which is Fargate.
And after that we'll do this section 19.
And if you see here this Load Balancer Controller right
with the Network Load Balancer, which means
like whenever you are-
This Load Balancer Controller
whatever we are talking is like we are talking here
about the Network Load Balancer features.
So this Network Load Balancer supports PCP, UDP, and TLS
and for health check also it supports TCP history.
TPN has GTPS related protocols
and this Network Load Balancer in combination
with this Load Balancer Controller also supports
instance and IP mode.
And for IP mode is primarily for Fargate
but you can also use it
when you're using the worker nodes also, right?
So that the requests will go directly
from your load balancer to your respective port.
And this Network Load Balancer also supports
internal load balancer and also external load balancer.
In addition to that it also supports
custom subnet discovery.
So which means you can define custom subnets
by annotation itself and this Network Load Balancer
in combination with this Load Balancer Controller also
supports static elastic IP and also access controls.
All in all with this new approach,
we have 25 plus new annotations available for us
and we can use all those annotations
to effectively configure our Network Load Balancer
and use all the latest features of our Network Load Balancer
from Kubernetes service manifest itself.
So if you go to that link here, whatever is provided, right?
So earlier we have seen
the ingress annotation specifications
and these are ingress related things in the guide, right?
So you can see here in the service
you'll find NLB related information
and also NLB related annotations.
So all these are the NLB related annotations
which we can use to configure our Network Load Balancer
with the features inside those things.
So there are close to 25 plus annotations available for us.
So now let's come back here.
And another question we have here is how
to ensure our network will be created
using Kubernetes service will be associated
with only latest AWS Load Balancer Controller.
So the question here is you have created
a Kubernetes service of type LoadBalancer
with an annotation related to Network Load Balancer.
So how will we know that
or how will we ensure that the load balancer
whatever it is going to create the network load
balancer is associated or is reconciled
with the AWS Load Balancer Controller, the latest one.
So here comes the important thing.
So you have return your Kubernetes service manifest
and you also have your AWS cloud provider load
balancer controller, which is a legacy one by
default whenever you create a EKS cluster control plane.
So that gets installed
and now you also install your AWS Load Balancer Controller
which is the latest one.
So now here comes the important thing
in the Kubernetes service manifest.
So whenever you define your annotation
as annotation for AWS load balancer type as NLB
Right? So whenever you define that as NLB so
that Kubernetes service will be associated
with this legacy cloud provider Load Balancer Controller.
And whenever you define, right,
AWS Load Balancer type as "nlb-ip"
or external, when you define these two things
it'll be associated with the AWS Load Balancer Controller.
So if the values of AWS load balancer
type annotation is nlb-ip or external,
at that point of time-
This legacy controller ignores that Kubernetes manifest.
So that AWS Load Balancer Controller can take over that.
So that's the thing happens in the background.
And so this nlb-ip is far-
This Fargate related ports and
this is a deprecated one and just still in action
for backward compatibility.
But the standard one which always we need
to use the AWS Load Balancer Controller,
the latest one,
is use the load balancer type as external.
So all of our demos, all the six demos related
to this Network Load Balancer, we are going to
have this external as the load balancer type.
And don't confuse that whenever you put the type
as external, it is going to create any internet
facing load balancer.
So that decision will be taken with it different
annotation call scheme.
But here this type is nothing but
it is not using the internal by default install
cloud provider load balancer.
It is using an external load balancer controller,
which is nothing but whatever you have manually installed,
the latest AWS Load Balancer Controller.
An additional note too is EKS cluster versions
so and so, right?
V1.18.18 plus RV.19.10 plus
and V1.20 or 21 or 22.
Any, anything higher
are supported with this entire features.
So which means from these versions onwards,
whenever you use the type as external or nlb-ip,
then your Load Balancer Controller latest will be picked.
So now let- why?
Because they will have a patch applied to this cloud
provider load balancer so that whenever the request
with this Kubernetes manifest whenever deployed, right?
First this cloud provider Load Balancer Controller
legacy will check for the load balancer type.
And due to that patch it'll verify
whether it has nlb or nlb-ip or external.
And if it finds that anything from this nlb-ip or external,
it will ignore and not create the-
Not associate or reconcile with this one.
And at that point of time automatically the new load
balancer controller will take the action and then use it.
So now let's come back here.
So from Kubernetes service manifest perspective
the important items for creating
a network load balancer which will be associated
with this AWS Load Balancer Controller latest is
Kubernetes services are Kubernetes object of type service.
So this is one setting
and another setting is load balancer type is external,
right?
And your type means like your load balancer type
is LoadBalancer in your spec.
And also you can have the load balancer scheme.
You can see the scheme here, right?
So it can be internal internet facing or internal.
So if it is internal it'll create the internal
Network Load Balancer.
If it is internet facing
it is going to create a internet facing load balancer.
But key important things are your Kubernetes object of type
or object of kind service
and your load balancer type is external
and your service type is LoadBalancer.
In these cases, it is going to create
a network load balancer which will be associated
to your AWS load balancer console or a controller
or it is going to reconcile with AWS load balancer control.
Now let's see the high level architectural object view
of what is this from Kubernetes perspective.
So we have- in AWS cloud we have created a EKS cluster
and we already installed the AWS Load Balancer Controller
which means its related service accounts
and IM roles all are created
as part of our ingress first section, right?
So that's good.
So now let's come back here
and if you see whenever you deploy
your Kubernetes manifest of type service
so automatically initially it'll check means
like it'll go and then check next yours cloud provider
load balancer, legacy controller.
And there it finds that the load balancer type is external
and at that point of time this Load Balancer Controller
will pick it and this Kubernetes service will be created
and reconciled or associated
with this Load Balancer Controller
and the settings inside this Kubernetes
load balancer services.
Before going there we'll also go here
as part of deploying the Kubernetes service manifest,
we'll also deploy our NGINX app related deployment manifest.
So it'll create a NGINX app related deployment
engine port objects in our EKS cluster.
So no from settings perspective
in Kubernetes service, right?
So listener port 80 is going to be by default
we don't need to define any annotation for that.
So it's a default one
and LB type external our load balancer type external.
So this is the one which is deciding that
this Kubernetes load balancer service should be reconciled
or associated with this AWS Load Balancer Controller
instead of a legacy one.
And the next annotation you're going to define is
target type is instance.
So either you can use instance RIP mode
and we will do with instance mode
and for a Fargate demo we'll do with IP.
But you can use any of those things.
Instance or IP mode.
So with instance mode it'll use the worker nodes will be
with worker nodes with the node port services
which means worker nodes related node port will be added
as a targets in your target group of your load balancer.
So which we already discussed multiple times these things.
And you can also define health check settings
for your respective Network Load Balancer
from the Kubernetes service itself.
And the important option we have is it supports
both TCP history, TP and history
TPS load balancer related health check settings.
Even though this is a layer four load balancer,
Network Load Balancer,
and it operates at the layer four of the OSI model.
The health check parts supports layer four
which is TCP protocol and also HTTP protocol,
which is layer seven, and also HTTPS protocol.
So that's one important thing we should know here.
And scheme-
this load balancer is going to be internet facing
and also source range also you can define
which means this network load balancer
can be accessed from which places.
And you can define that, you can restrict
so I have put it to the full internet,
but you can restrict and tell that we can allow
this network load balancer even if it is internet facing.
So it can be allowed only from so and so IP segment.
So that also you can do
and whenever this Kubernetes service is deployed
it creates the Network Load Balancer
for us from AWS cloud perspective.
But this is a single object for us to understand
from logical perspective.
And whenever user accesses the NLB DNS URL
which is a HTTP URL
so the request comes to your app Network Load Balancer
and from there it'll go to your app three.
And that happens with this services there like these
the targets are registered as a node port services, right
in your respective target groups of your load balancer.
So now the same thing we have seen
in a Kubernetes object model.
So let's also see
from AWS network design perspective in AWS cloud.
So whenever we have created EKS cluster control plan
so it has created public subnets,
private subnets, and also a VPC for us
in two availability zones.
Later it we have also
created a EKS private node group
as part of our section 07-01
and we also have a NAD gateway automatically created
for outbound communication for our worker nodes
which are present in the private subnets
with EKS cluster control plan.
And we also deployed our NGINX app three.
So this should be changing
to app three here, but that's fine.
So it which will create a deployment
which creates a replica set and their ports inside them.
And we'll create a Network Load Balancer
which means you have deployed a Kubernetes service manifest
and it created a Network Load Balancer
for us and as users, right?
So whenever you access your HTTP and LB DNS URL
so it'll come to your Network Load Balancer and why right?
Worker node related node ports, it'll reach your pod, right?
So that's what it is going to happen.
And finally, so these are the annotations which we are de-
which we are going to define as part of the NLB basics demo.
So these things one more time we are going to review
in detail in our next step in our visual studio code.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.